Bevy 0.19 release note pass (#24176)
bevyengine/bevy: _release-content/release-notes/settings.md

---
title: "User settings"
authors: ["@viridia", "@mpowell90"]
pull_requests: [22891, 23034, 23719, 23812]
---

The Bevy editor needs a settings system — for layout preferences, tool configuration, and everything else that should persist between sessions. We've built `bevy_settings` as a proper standalone crate so that both the editor and your own games can share a solid, easy-to-use foundation.

You might want to persist:

- Editor panel layouts and tool preferences
- Music and sound volume controls
- Graphics options
- Window position and size
- "Don't show this dialog again"

## Defining settings

Settings groups are plain Rust structs that derive `Resource`, `SettingsGroup`, and `Reflect`:

```rust
#[derive(Resource, SettingsGroup, Reflect, Default)]
#[reflect(Resource, SettingsGroup, Default)]
struct AudioSettings {
    music_volume: f32,
    sfx_volume: f32,
}
```

Add `PreferencesPlugin` with a unique [reverse-domain] app name, and your settings groups are

> automatically loaded on startup and inserted as resources:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adding `PreferencesPlugin` with a unique [reverse-domain] app name will automatically load your settings groups
on startup and insert them as resources:
```

```rust
app.add_plugins(PreferencesPlugin::new("com.example.mygame"));
```

> From there, read them like any other resource:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the settings groups are added, you can read them like any other resource:
```
